All right.
Welcome back.
We're going to go over freelancer dot com.
I'm going to try to keep this as brief as possible.
I had mentioned before that freelancer is the least like the other two freelancer has the most the largest
user base of freelancers of about seven million there also.
Strangely enough the least profitable of the three.
Mainly because they make most of their money off of project upgrades and all of an assortment of fees
that they've kind of come up with.
So we're just going to go to this pretty quickly as you can see it is just kind of a mess in terms of
a user interface during this demo if something breaks or something doesn't load.
I'm not entirely surprised.
Pre-cancer is the place that I call it the Wild West.
A great metaphor or A B comparison is it's kind of the Craigslist of freelancing services.
There's not a lot of rules.
Pretty much anything goes.
And a lot of times you find some things that are really kind of what you'd call like black hat or very
kind of scatch.
So anyway speaking of scatch I use this as a burn away account and I just have a fake name associated
with it but I'm either using freelancer for quite a long time mainly because they're the best if you
have a small task or you have something that's not you know it's harder to get done.
A lot of times like I might be thinking I'm I mean a an artist an illustrator I need someone who specializes
in video or audio or something that not I don't think necessarily lends itself well the answer I would
ask.
I go to a freelancer freelancer has people that do pretty much everything and as you can see over here
here some progress I've actually been using freelancer to help out with my you Dimi courses.
So you'll notice here it kind of looks like the other two you poster project here you find your freelancers
here you can browse other projects they give you a lot more controls over it.
You can look for all of the projects that are like ending soon ones that have no bids.
Ones that fit your skills if you're a freelancer post contests not to be confused with post project
freelancer also has a secondary function which is that they have a contest section of their web site.
If you click on this button right here you can see the other services they offer.
So freelancer's the main one freelancer contest is their answer to 99 designs freelancers services.
Is there a copy cat a fiver or a dot com.
I don't even know what these three are but chances are you probably will use them.
Freelancer is a little bit weird or you will upload money into your account and so like you'll deposit
funds and then you'll pay your freelancers freelancer.
Keep in mind that there's not a lot of support when it comes to people who disappear or don't do your
work don't do it correctly.
They have tried to automate virtually everything and to the detriment of their community.
So we can check out what a project looks like.
Here is an example.
Earlier in the course you've seen some hand drawings I actually use this as a way of drumming up leads
for looking for a graphic designer who could help me.
What they will do is
what they do is they will show off at the very top of each project who they suggest.
Now this is something you won't notice with Lance Lance doesn't usually suggest a user oDesk won't suggest
a user freelancer well and also a lot of times you'll notice that they have sponsored listings meaning
someone can pay to show up at the top of your list.
They also do this weird thing which is on purpose.
I can't hide bids.
Wow you can't even talking about freelancer and how much their user interface is kind of crap design.
You notice that constantly things are just cut off.
But what this.
I think it says report meaning I can report it if it's spam but I can never seem to get rid of any bid
anyway.
Yes that is how they design the layouts.
Keep in mind people can sponsor their bids can show up at the top.
I try to stay away from sponsored bids.
A lot of freelancers who sponsored bids at the beginning so that they can reach so they can get a lot
of projects at first.
They have built in a chat system so this is along with a frequently used contact list.
So in NLC you little notice if someone is online you can see that they will pop up and will have a green
dot.
So they've integrated instant messaging into their system and then they've integrated all sorts of other
web sites into a kind of a hodgepodge it's really kind of a melting pot.
That's why I call it the Wild West.
You can get of the greatest value possible out of here and at the same time you can get some of the
largest headaches dot com.
It's typically a great option.
For instance if you want to get a clone of a Web site it's also great if you want someone to do some
advertising for you.
So actually if you want to bend the rules a little bit and you're fine.
Kind of walking the line between spam and not spam.
This is kind of a place that you would look for people let's see freelance.
I'm also a strange thing that they do is.
Man if I can even find it they have tried to Gamefly their system quite a bit.
Where is it where.
OK here it is.
Myra Woodwards I thought this was goofy.
If you are someone that does a lot of projects a lot of the time they have made a whole badge system
and a credit Shaha Peden and all sorts of goofy things.
You know I'm level 12 journeyman and so I could use this to upgrade and to get free featuring and free.
I'm not even entirely sure.
But anyway it's kind of like a rewards program.
You know maybe some of you might find some use out of this.
Maybe you won't see.
All right.
So anyway I promised that I'd keep this one short.
We're not going to do a deep dive into this Web site there.
Honestly there are enough features on this website to make an entire course out of it seems like.
And for your purposes you really just want to focus with the basics which is posting a project and then
managing your freelancers and also just knowing kind of ahead of time what exactly are the best interests
about this Web site here.
I mean this is the Czar you'd post the project.
It's virtually the same.
This is one thing that is worth posting talking about very briefly.
They make most of their money off of upgrades.
So if you want to for instance increase the reach of your page you can do a free trade listing cost
$29 if you want to do.
Urgent urgent means that you just put some marker next or that says urgent.
And then more people know that you're trying to pick someone soon and so you get a lot of bids.
Recruiters the service they offer that I don't believe the other to offer you pay $29 and they will
help you recruit someone.
In my experience it's not particularly helpful because the support they give you is very minimal.
But I believe what ends up happening when you're a recruiter is you get an automatic upgrade to being
featured and that's kind of how they justify paying for the service.
One of the goofy things that it'll happen is when you post your project it will ask you if you want
to upgrade and you can do that.
And if you don't upgrade it says you want to do a free version and it says the free version you have
to wait and someone has to manually review your posting.
That is not true.
So if you hit the free version it loads it pretends that it's getting reviewed and then it just posted.
It's actually computer them that checks it over.
There's actually no delay so don't get tricked into paying extra money if you don't feel like it.
Freelancer it's another Web site that I think you should add to your toolkit.
If you have I think it's better for auxiliary services and I think that it's great for finding people
that are kind of your odds and ends things people can fill in the gaps and.